apps/wolfssl_tcp_server/docs/readme_run_application.md, before:

---
grand_parent:  Harmony 3 TCP/IP Application for PIC32MZ Family
parent: TCP/IP WolfSSL TCP Server
title: Running Application
nav_order: 3
has_children: false
has_toc: false
---
[![MCHP](https://www.microchip.com/ResourcePackages/Microchip/assets/dist/images/logo.png)](https://www.microchip.com)

# TCP/IP WolfSSL TCP Server Running Application

## MPLAB X IDE Project
This table list the name and location of the MPLAB X IDE project folder for the demonstration.

|Project Name|  Target Device|  Target Development Board | Description  |
|:-------------:|:---------:|:---------:|:---------:|
|pic32mz_ef_sk.X | PIC32MZ2048EFH144 | PIC32MZ EF Starter Kit | Demonstrates the wolfSSL TCP Server on a development board with PIC32MZ2048EFH144 device and LAN8740 PHY daughter board. This is a bare-metal (non-RTOS) implementation.  |
|pic32mz_ef_sk_freertos.X | PIC32MZ2048EFH144 | PIC32MZ EF Starter Kit | Demonstrates the wolfSSL TCP Server on development board with PIC32MZ2048EFH144 device and LAN8740 PHY daughter board. This implementation is based on FreeRTOS. |
|pic32mz_ef_sk_sw.X | PIC32MZ2048EFH144 | PIC32MZ EF Starter Kit | Demonstrates the wolfSSL TCP Server on a development board with PIC32MZ2048EFH144 device with  and LAN8740 PHY daughter board. This is a bare-metal (non-RTOS) implementation. WolfSSL Software crypto enabled |


## Running The Demonstration

1. Configure the Development Board as given  **[Configure Hardware](readme_hardware_configuration.md)**.

2. Make the demonstration setup as shown [Network Setup](../../readme.md).

3. Build and download the demonstration project on the target board.

4. If the board has a UART connection:

    1. A virtual COM port will be detected on the computer, when the USB cable is connected to USB-UART connector.

    2. Open a standard terminal application on the computer (like Hyper-terminal or Tera Term) and configure the virtual COM port.

    3. Set the serial baud rate to 115200 baud in the terminal application.

    4. See that the initialization prints on the serial port terminal.

    5. When the DHCP client is enabled in the demonstration, wait for the DHCP server to assign an IP address for the development board. This will be printed on the serial port terminal.

		* Alternatively: Use the Announce service or ping to get the IP address of the board.

        * Run **tcpip_discoverer.jar** to discover the IPv4 and IPv6 address for the board.
        
5. Execution :
    
    As soon as a valid IP address is assigned through the DHCP to the demonstration, it is ready to serve Web pages.

    The demonstration does not offer any additional functionality through the serial port; however, the current IP can be checked.

    Use any Web browser (i.e., Chrome, Internet Explorer, Firefox, etc.) to connect to the Web server with either http:// or https://.

Commit message:

[MH3-46427] [MH3-46426] [MH3-46425] [MH3-46424] [MH3-46423] [MH3-46422] wolfssl tcp server regeneration and test for the PIC32MZEF  device for both bare metal and freertos device

apps/wolfssl_tcp_server/docs/readme_run_application.md, after:

---
grand_parent:  Harmony 3 TCP/IP Application for PIC32MZ Family
parent: TCP/IP WolfSSL TCP Server
title: Running Application
nav_order: 3
has_children: false
has_toc: false
---
[![MCHP](https://www.microchip.com/ResourcePackages/Microchip/assets/dist/images/logo.png)](https://www.microchip.com)

# TCP/IP WolfSSL TCP Server Running Application

## MPLAB X IDE Project
This table list the name and location of the MPLAB X IDE project folder for the demonstration.

|Project Name|  Target Device|  Target Development Board | Description  |
|:-------------:|:---------:|:---------:|:---------:|
|pic32mz_ef_sk.X | PIC32MZ2048EFH144 | PIC32MZ EF Starter Kit | Demonstrates the wolfSSL TCP Server on a development board with PIC32MZ2048EFH144 device and LAN8740 PHY daughter board. This is a bare-metal (non-RTOS) implementation.  |
|pic32mz_ef_sk_freertos.X | PIC32MZ2048EFH144 | PIC32MZ EF Starter Kit | Demonstrates the wolfSSL TCP Server on development board with PIC32MZ2048EFH144 device and LAN8740 PHY daughter board. This implementation is based on FreeRTOS. |
|pic32mz_ef_sk_sw.X | PIC32MZ2048EFH144 | PIC32MZ EF Starter Kit | Demonstrates the wolfSSL TCP Server on a development board with PIC32MZ2048EFH144 device with  and LAN8740 PHY daughter board. This is a bare-metal (non-RTOS) implementation. WolfSSL Software crypto enabled |


## Running The Demonstration

1. Configure the Development Board as given  **[Configure Hardware](readme_hardware_configuration.md)**.

2. Make the demonstration setup as shown [Network Setup](../../readme.md).

3. Build and download the demonstration project on the target board.

4. If the board has a UART connection:

    1. A virtual COM port will be detected on the computer, when the USB cable is connected to USB-UART connector.

    2. Open a standard terminal application on the computer (like Hyper-terminal or Tera Term) and configure the virtual COM port.

    3. Set the serial baud rate to 115200 baud in the terminal application.

    4. See that the initialization prints on the serial port terminal.

    5. When the DHCP client is enabled in the demonstration, wait for the DHCP server to assign an IP address for the development board. This will be printed on the serial port terminal.

		* Alternatively: Use the Announce service or ping to get the IP address of the board.

        * Run **tcpip_discoverer.jar** to discover the IPv4 and IPv6 address for the board.
        
5. Execution :
    
    1. As soon as a valid IP address is assigned through the DHCP to the demonstration, it is ready to accept a TCP/IP connection on non-secured port **80** or secured port **443**.

        ![tcpip_tcp_wolfssl_server_project](images/dhcp_5.png)

    2. Send a TCP packet to the IP address of the hardware board using port **443** from any TCP Client application running on the computer.

    3. The TCP Server demonstration running on the evaluation kit will echo back everything it receives along the connection.

    4. For TCP Server test, the TCP Client application is required to run on the computer (SocketTest, Packet Sender etc). In this demonstration, we use the program, SocketTest (http://sockettest.sourceforge.net/). This demonstration is tested with **SocketTest v3.0**.
        
        * Open the **SocketTest** software and set the configuration as shown in the following figure.

        	![tcpip_tcp_wolfssl_server_project](images/socketTest__secured_server_connection.png)

        *  Press the Connect button on the **SocketTest** software after setting the configuration. The serial terminal indicates that the connection has been established.
        
        * Type any message in the message box of the **SocketTest** program, and press the Send button. The Server running on the development board will echo back the message to the **SocketTest** program.

        	![tcpip_tcp_wolfssl_server_project](images/securedServerOutput.png)
